1 Notes on the Free Translation Project
***************************************

Free software is going international!  The Free Translation Project is
a way to get maintainers of free software, translators, and users all
together, so that free software will gradually become able to speak many
languages.  A few packages already provide translations for their
messages.

   If you found this ‘ABOUT-NLS’ file inside a distribution, you may
assume that the distributed package does use GNU ‘gettext’ internally,
itself available at your nearest GNU archive site.  But you do _not_
need to install GNU ‘gettext’ prior to configuring, installing or using
this package with messages translated.

   Installers will find here some useful hints.  These notes also
explain how users should proceed for getting the programs to use the
available translations.  They tell how people wanting to contribute and
work on translations can contact the appropriate team.

1.1 INSTALL Matters
===================

Some packages are "localizable" when properly installed; the programs
they contain can be made to speak your own native language.  Most such
packages use GNU ‘gettext’.  Other packages have their own ways to
internationalization, predating GNU ‘gettext’.

   By default, this package will be installed to allow translation of
messages.  It will automatically detect whether the system already
provides the GNU ‘gettext’ functions.  Installers may use special
options at configuration time for changing the default behaviour.  The
command:

     ./configure --disable-nls

will _totally_ disable translation of messages.

   When you already have GNU ‘gettext’ installed on your system and run
configure without an option for your new package, ‘configure’ will
probably detect the previously built and installed ‘libintl’ library
and will decide to use it.  If not, you may have to to use the
‘--with-libintl-prefix’ option to tell ‘configure’ where to look for it.

   Internationalized packages usually have many ‘po/LL.po’ files, where
LL gives an ISO 639 two-letter code identifying the language.  Unless
translations have been forbidden at ‘configure’ time by using the
‘--disable-nls’ switch, all available translations are installed
together with the package.  However, the environment variable ‘LINGUAS’
may be set, prior to configuration, to limit the installed set.
‘LINGUAS’ should then contain a space separated list of two-letter
codes, stating which languages are allowed.

1.2 Using This Package
======================

As a user, if your language has been installed for this package, you
only have to set the ‘LANG’ environment variable to the appropriate
‘LL_CC’ combination.  If you happen to have the ‘LC_ALL’ or some other
‘LC_xxx’ environment variables set, you should unset them before
setting ‘LANG’, otherwise the setting of ‘LANG’ will not have the
desired effect.  Here ‘LL’ is an ISO 639 two-letter language code, and
‘CC’ is an ISO 3166 two-letter country code.  For example, let's
suppose that you speak German and live in Germany.  At the shell
prompt, merely execute ‘setenv LANG de_DE’ (in ‘csh’),
‘export LANG; LANG=de_DE’ (in ‘sh’) or ‘export LANG=de_DE’ (in ‘bash’).
This can be done from your ‘.login’ or ‘.profile’ file, once and for
all.

   You might think that the country code specification is redundant.
But in fact, some languages have dialects in different countries.  For
example, ‘de_AT’ is used for Austria, and ‘pt_BR’ for Brazil.  The
country code serves to distinguish the dialects.

   The locale naming convention of ‘LL_CC’, with ‘LL’ denoting the
language and ‘CC’ denoting the country, is the one use on systems based
on GNU libc.  On other systems, some variations of this scheme are
used, such as ‘LL’ or ‘LL_CC.ENCODING’.  You can get the list of
locales supported by your system for your language by running the
command ‘locale -a | grep ’^LL''.

   Not all programs have translations for all languages.  By default, an
English message is shown in place of a nonexistent translation.  If you
understand other languages, you can set up a priority list of languages.
This is done through a different environment variable, called
‘LANGUAGE’.  GNU ‘gettext’ gives preference to ‘LANGUAGE’ over ‘LANG’
for the purpose of message handling, but you still need to have ‘LANG’
set to the primary language; this is required by other parts of the
system libraries.  For example, some Swedish users who would rather
read translations in German than English for when Swedish is not
available, set ‘LANGUAGE’ to ‘sv:de’ while leaving ‘LANG’ to ‘sv_SE’.

   Special advice for Norwegian users: The language code for Norwegian
bokma*l changed from ‘no’ to ‘nb’ recently (in 2003).  During the
transition period, while some message catalogs for this language are
installed under ‘nb’ and some older ones under ‘no’, it's recommended
for Norwegian users to set ‘LANGUAGE’ to ‘nb:no’ so that both newer and
older translations are used.

   In the ‘LANGUAGE’ environment variable, but not in the ‘LANG’
environment variable, ‘LL_CC’ combinations can be abbreviated as ‘LL’
to denote the language's main dialect.  For example, ‘de’ is equivalent
to ‘de_DE’ (German as spoken in Germany), and ‘pt’ to ‘pt_PT’
(Portuguese as spoken in Portugal) in this context.

1.3 Translating Teams
=====================

For the Free Translation Project to be a success, we need interested
people who like their own language and write it well, and who are also
able to synergize with other translators speaking the same language.
Each translation team has its own mailing list.  The up-to-date list of
teams can be found at the Free Translation Project's homepage,
‘http://translationproject.org/’, in the "Teams" area.

   If you'd like to volunteer to _work_ at translating messages, you
should become a member of the translating team for your own language.
The subscribing address is _not_ the same as the list itself, it has
‘-request’ appended.  For example, speakers of Swedish can send a
message to ‘sv-request@li.org’, having this message body:

     subscribe

   Keep in mind that team members are expected to participate
_actively_ in translations, or at solving translational difficulties,
rather than merely lurking around.  If your team does not exist yet and
you want to start one, or if you are unsure about what to do or how to
get started, please write to ‘coordinator@translationproject.org’ to
reach the coordinator for all translator teams.

   The English team is special.  It works at improving and uniformizing
the terminology in use.  Proven linguistic skills are praised more than
programming skills, here.

1.4 Available Packages
======================

Languages are not equally supported in all packages.  The following
matrix shows the current state of internationalization, as of Dec 2012.
The matrix shows, in regard of each package, for which languages PO
files have been submitted to translation coordination, with a
translation percentage of at least 50%.

     Ready PO files       af am an ar as ast az be be@latin bg bn_IN bs ca
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |                       []                      [] |
     aegis              |                                                  |
     anubis             |                                                  |
     aspell             |                []                             [] |
     bash               |                                                  |
     bfd                |                                                  |
     bibshelf           |                []                                |
     binutils           |                                                  |
     bison              |                                                  |
     bison-runtime      |                []                                |
     bombono-dvd        |                                                  |
     buzztard           |                                                  |
     ccide              |                                                  |
     cflow              |                                                  |
     clisp              |                                                  |
     coreutils          |                                               [] |
     cpio               |                                                  |
     cppi               |                                                  |
     cpplib             |                                               [] |
     cryptsetup         |                                                  |
     denemo             |                                                  |
     dfarc              |                                               [] |
     dialog             |                             []                [] |
     dico               |                                                  |
     diffutils          |                                                  |
     dink               |                                                  |
     doodle             |                                                  |
     e2fsprogs          |                                                  |
     enscript           |                                               [] |
     exif               |                                                  |
     fetchmail          |                                               [] |
     findutils          |                                   []             |
     flex               |                                               [] |
     freedink           |                                               [] |
     gas                |                                                  |
     gawk               |                []                             [] |
     gcal               |                                               [] |
     gcc                |                                                  |
     gdbm               |                                                  |
     gettext-examples   | []             []                 []          [] |
     gettext-runtime    |                                   []          [] |
     gettext-tools      |                                   []          [] |
     gip                |                                   []             |
     gjay               |                                                  |
     gliv               |                                   []             |
     glunarclock        |                []                 []             |
     gnome-manual-du... |                                                  |
     gnubiff            |                                                  |
     gnubik             |                                                  |
     gnucash            |                                               [] |
     gnuedu             |                                                  |
     gnulib             |                                                  |
     gnunet             |                                                  |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                  |
     gold               |                                                  |
     gphoto2            |                                                  |
     gprof              |                                   []             |
     gpsdrive           |                                                  |
     gramadoir          |                                                  |
     grep               |                                               [] |
     grub               |                                               [] |
     gsasl              |                                                  |
     gss                |                                                  |
     gst-plugins-bad    |                                   []          [] |
     gst-plugins-base   |                                   []          [] |
     gst-plugins-good   |                                   []          [] |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |                                   []          [] |
     gstreamer          |                []                 []          [] |
     gtick              |                                                  |
     gtkam              |                       []                         |
     gtkorphan          |                                   []             |
     gtkspell           | []             []     []                         |
     gutenprint         |                                                  |
     hello              |                                   []          [] |
     help2man           |                                                  |
     hylafax            |                                                  |
     idutils            |                                                  |
     indent             |                                   []          [] |
     iso_15924          |                                                  |
     iso_3166           | []          []        []          []  []   [] [] |
     iso_3166_2         |                                                  |
     iso_4217           |                                                  |
     iso_639            |             [] []     []              []      [] |
     iso_639_3          |                []                                |
     iwhd               |                                                  |
     jwhois             |                                                  |
     kbd                |                                                  |
     keytouch           |                                               [] |
     keytouch-editor    |                                                  |
     keytouch-keyboa... |                                               [] |
     klavaro            |          []                                      |
     latrine            |                                                  |
     ld                 |                                   []             |
     leafpad            |                       []          []          [] |
     libc               |                                   []          [] |
     libexif            |                       ()                         |
     libextractor       |                                                  |
     libgnutls          |                                                  |
     libgpewidget       |                                                  |
     libgpg-error       |                                                  |
     libgphoto2         |                                                  |
     libgphoto2_port    |                                                  |
     libgsasl           |                                                  |
     libiconv           |                                   []             |
     libidn             |                                                  |
     lifelines          |                                                  |
     liferea            |                []           []                [] |
     lilypond           |                                                  |
     linkdr             |          []                                      |
     lordsawar          |                                               [] |
     lprng              |                                                  |
     lynx               |                                               [] |
     m4                 |                                                  |
     mailfromd          |                                                  |
     mailutils          |                                                  |
     make               |                                                  |
     man-db             |                                               [] |
     man-db-manpages    |                                                  |
     minicom            |                                                  |
     mkisofs            |                                                  |
     myserver           |                                                  |
     nano               |                                   []          [] |
     opcodes            |                                                  |
     parted             |                                                  |
     pies               |                                                  |
     popt               |                                                  |
     psmisc             |                                                  |
     pspp               |                                               [] |
     pwdutils           |                                                  |
     pyspread           |                                                  |
     radius             |                                               [] |
     recode             |                       []                      [] |
     recutils           |                                                  |
     rosegarden         |                                                  |
     rpm                |                                                  |
     rush               |                                                  |
     sarg               |                                                  |
     sed                |                []                             [] |
     sharutils          |                                   []          [] |
     shishi             |                                                  |
     skencil            |                                                  |
     solfege            |                                                  |
     solfege-manual     |                                                  |
     sp                 |                                                  |
     sudo               |                                                  |
     sudoers            |                                                  |
     sysstat            |                                                  |
     tar                |                                   []          [] |
     texinfo            |                                                  |
     tin                |                                                  |
     tracgoogleappsa... |                                                  |
     trader             |                                                  |
     unicode-han-tra... |                                                  |
     unicode-transla... |                                                  |
     util-linux         |                                                  |
     vice               |                                                  |
     vmm                |                                                  |
     vorbis-tools       |                                                  |
     wastesedge         |                                                  |
     wdiff              |                                               [] |
     wget               |                                               [] |
     wyslij-po          |                                                  |
     xboard             |                                                  |
     xchat              |                []     []          []          [] |
     xdg-user-dirs      | []    []    [] []     []    []    []  []      [] |
     xkeyboard-config   |                                   []          [] |
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
                          af am an ar as ast az be be@latin bg bn_IN bs ca
                           4  0  1  2  3 14   0  9     3    27   3    1 47

                          crh cs da  de  el en en_GB en_ZA eo es et eu fa fi
                        +-----------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |     [] []  []  []     []         [] [] []       []  |
     aegis              |        []  []                       []              |
     anubis             |        []  []                                   []  |
     aspell             |     [] []  []         []            []          []  |
     bash               |     [] []                        [] []          []  |
     bfd                |        []                           []          []  |
     bibshelf           |     [] []  []                    [] []          []  |
     binutils           |                                     []          []  |
     bison              |            []                    []    []       []  |
     bison-runtime      |        []  []  []                []    []       []  |
     bombono-dvd        |     [] []  []                                   []  |
     buzztard           |     [] []  []                                   []  |
     ccide              |        []  []                    []             []  |
     cflow              |        []  []                    []             []  |
     clisp              |        []  []     []                []              |
     coreutils          |     [] []  []                       [] []           |
     cpio               |        []  []                                   []  |
     cppi               |            []                    []             []  |
     cpplib             |        []  []                       []          []  |
     cryptsetup         |     []     []                                   []  |
     denemo             |     []                                              |
     dfarc              |        []  []                    [] []          []  |
     dialog             |     [] []  []  []                [] []    []    []  |
     dico               |                                                 []  |
     diffutils          |        []  []                       []              |
     dink               |        []  []                    [] []              |
     doodle             |     []     []                    []             []  |
     e2fsprogs          |     []     []                       []              |
     enscript           |        []  []         []                        []  |
     exif               |     [] []  []                    []             []  |
     fetchmail          |     [] []  ()  []     []            []              |
     findutils          |     [] []  []                          []       []  |
     flex               |        []  []                    [] []          []  |
     freedink           |     [] []  []  []                [] []    []    []  |
     gas                |                                     []          []  |
     gawk               |        []  []                       []          []  |
     gcal               |        []                           []              |
     gcc                |            []                       []              |
     gdbm               |            []                                   []  |
     gettext-examples   |     [] []  []  []                [] []          []  |
     gettext-runtime    |     [] []  []                    [] []          []  |
     gettext-tools      |        []  []                       []    []    []  |
     gip                |     [] []  []                    [] []    []    []  |
     gjay               |            []                    []             []  |
     gliv               |     [] []  []                                   []  |
     glunarclock        |     [] []  []                    []             []  |
     gnome-manual-du... |        []  []                    []             []  |
     gnubiff            |            ()                                   []  |
     gnubik             |        []  []                    []             []  |
     gnucash            |     []     ()  ()     ()            ()          ()  |
     gnuedu             |        []                           []              |
     gnulib             |     [] []  []                       [] []       []  |
     gnunet             |                                                     |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                     |
     gold               |                                     []          []  |
     gphoto2            |     [] []  ()                             []        |
     gprof              |        []  []                    [] []          []  |
     gpsdrive           |        []                           [] []           |
     gramadoir          |        []  []                    []             []  |
     grep               |     [] []  []                       [] []       []  |
     grub               |            []                                   []  |
     gsasl              |            []                    []             []  |
     gss                |                                  []             []  |
     gst-plugins-bad    |     [] []  []  []                [] []    []    []  |
     gst-plugins-base   |     [] []  []  []                   []    []    []  |
     gst-plugins-good   |     [] []  []  []                   []    []    []  |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |     [] []  []  []                [] []    []    []  |
     gstreamer          |     [] []  []  []                   []    []    []  |
     gtick              |     [] []  ()                    []             []  |
     gtkam              |     [] []  ()                    [] []          []  |
     gtkorphan          |     [] []  []                    []                 |
     gtkspell           |     [] []  []  []                [] []    []    []  |
     gutenprint         |        []  []         []                        []  |
     hello              |        []  []  []                [] [] []       []  |
     help2man           |            []  []                []             []  |
     hylafax            |            []                       []              |
     idutils            |        []  []                    []             []  |
     indent             |     [] []  []                    [] [] [] []    []  |
     iso_15924          |     [] []      ()                [] []          []  |
     iso_3166           | []  [] []  []  ()                [] [] [] ()    []  |
     iso_3166_2         |        []  []  ()                                   |
     iso_4217           |     [] []  []  ()                   [] []       []  |
     iso_639            | []  [] []  []  ()                [] []          []  |
     iso_639_3          | []                                                  |
     iwhd               |            []                       []          []  |
     jwhois             |            []                    [] []          []  |
     kbd                |     [] []  []  []                [] []              |
     keytouch           |     [] []  []                    []             []  |
     keytouch-editor    |     [] []  []                    []             []  |
     keytouch-keyboa... |     [] []  []                    []             []  |
     klavaro            |     [] []  []                    [] []    []        |
     latrine            |     [] []  ()                    []             []  |
     ld                 |        []                           []          []  |
     leafpad            |     [] []  []  []                [] []    []    []  |
     libc               |     [] []  []                       []          []  |
     libexif            |        []  []         ()                            |
     libextractor       |                                                     |
     libgnutls          |     []     []                                   []  |
     libgpewidget       |        []  []                                   []  |
     libgpg-error       |     []     []                                       |
     libgphoto2         |        []  ()                                       |
     libgphoto2_port    |     [] []  ()                                   []  |
     libgsasl           |            []                    []             []  |
     libiconv           |     [] []  []                    []    []       []  |
     libidn             |     [] []  []                    []             []  |
     lifelines          |        []  ()                                       |
     liferea            |     [] []  []  []                   []    []    []  |
     lilypond           |     []     []  []                [] []              |
     linkdr             |        []  []                       []          []  |
     lordsawar          |        []  []                                       |
     lprng              |                                                     |
     lynx               |     [] []  []                    []    []       []  |
     m4                 |     [] []  []  []                               []  |
     mailfromd          |                                                     |
     mailutils          |                                     []          []  |
     make               |     [] []  []                       []          []  |
     man-db             |     [] []  []                                       |
     man-db-manpages    |            []                                       |
     minicom            |     [] []  []                       []          []  |
     mkisofs            |     []                                          []  |
     myserver           |     []     []                                   []  |
     nano               |     [] []  []                    [] []    []    []  |
     opcodes            |        []  []                       []          []  |
     parted             |     [] []  []                                       |
     pies               |                                                     |
     popt               |     [] []  []                    [] []          []  |
     psmisc             |     [] []  []                    []       []    []  |
     pspp               |                                     []              |
     pwdutils           |        []                                           |
     pyspread           |                                                     |
     radius             |                                     []              |
     recode             |     [] []  []  []                [] []          []  |
     recutils           |            []                                   []  |
     rosegarden         |     ()     ()                       ()          ()  |
     rpm                |        []                        []             []  |
     rush               |                                                 []  |
     sarg               |        []                                           |
     sed                |     [] []  []  []                [] [] []       []  |
     sharutils          |     [] []  []                       [] []       []  |
     shishi             |                                                 []  |
     skencil            |        []  ()                       []              |
     solfege            |     [] []  []                    [] [] []    [] []  |
     solfege-manual     |            []                    [] [] []           |
     sp                 |            []                                       |
     sudo               |        []  []                    [] []          []  |
     sudoers            |        []                        []             []  |
     sysstat            |     [] []  []                    []       []    []  |
     tar                |     [] []  []                          [] []    []  |
     texinfo            |            []                       []              |
     tin                |            []                          []           |
     tracgoogleappsa... |        []  []                    []             []  |
     trader             |            []         []                        []  |
     unicode-han-tra... |                                                     |
     unicode-transla... |                                                     |
     util-linux         |     [] []                                           |
     vice               |        ()  ()                                       |
     vmm                |                                                 []  |
     vorbis-tools       |     [] []  []                    []                 |
     wastesedge         |        []                                           |
     wdiff              |     [] []  []                       []          []  |
     wget               |     [] []  []                       [] []       []  |
     wyslij-po          |                                                 []  |
     xboard             |        []  []                                       |
     xchat              |     [] []  []  []     []            [] []       []  |
     xdg-user-dirs      | []  [] []  []  []                [] [] [] [] [] []  |
     xkeyboard-config   |     [] []  []                    [] []              |
                        +-----------------------------------------------------+
                          crh cs da  de  el en en_GB en_ZA eo es et eu fa fi
                           4  78 112 117 23  1   8     0   67 77 23 20  2 112

                          fr  ga gl gu he hi hr hu hy id is it ja ka kk kn
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               | []                 []       []    [] []          |
     aegis              | []                                []             |
     anubis             | []                 []       []    []             |
     aspell             | []  []             []       []    [] []          |
     bash               | []                    []    []    [] []          |
     bfd                | []                          []       []          |
     bibshelf           | []  []             []       []    []             |
     binutils           | []                          []    [] []          |
     bison              | []  []             []       []                   |
     bison-runtime      | []  [] []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     bombono-dvd        | []                                []             |
     buzztard           | []                                               |
     ccide              | []                 []                            |
     cflow              | []  []             []       []                   |
     clisp              | []                                               |
     coreutils          | []                    []    []    [] []          |
     cpio               | []  []             []       []    [] []          |
     cppi               | []                 []             [] []          |
     cpplib             | []                          []       []          |
     cryptsetup         | []                                []             |
     denemo             |                                                  |
     dfarc              | []                 []             []             |
     dialog             | []  [] []          []       [] [] [] []          |
     dico               | []                                               |
     diffutils          | []                                [] []          |
     dink               | []                                               |
     doodle             |     []                            []             |
     e2fsprogs          | []                          []                   |
     enscript           | []  []             []       []                   |
     exif               | []     []          []       [] [] [] []          |
     fetchmail          | []                          []    [] []          |
     findutils          | []  [] []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     flex               | []  []                                           |
     freedink           | []                 []       []    []             |
     gas                | []                          []                   |
     gawk               | []  []       []             []    () []          |
     gcal               | []                                               |
     gcc                |                             []                   |
     gdbm               | []                                   []          |
     gettext-examples   | []  [] []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     gettext-runtime    | []  [] []          []       []    [] []          |
     gettext-tools      | []                          []    [] []          |
     gip                | []  [] []          []       []       []          |
     gjay               |        []                                        |
     gliv               | ()                                               |
     glunarclock        |     [] []          [] []    []    []             |
     gnome-manual-du... | []                 []             []             |
     gnubiff            | ()                          []    ()             |
     gnubik             |                    []                            |
     gnucash            | ()           ()       ()          () []          |
     gnuedu             | []                                []             |
     gnulib             | []  [] []             []          [] []          |
     gnunet             |                                                  |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                  |
     gold               |                             []    []             |
     gphoto2            | []                          []    [] []          |
     gprof              | []  []                      []    []             |
     gpsdrive           |        []                   []    []             |
     gramadoir          | []  []                      []                   |
     grep               | []  [] []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     grub               | []                                []             |
     gsasl              | []  []             []       []    []             |
     gss                | []  []             []       []    []             |
     gst-plugins-bad    | []     []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     gst-plugins-base   | []     []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     gst-plugins-good   | []     []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     gst-plugins-ugly   | []     []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     gstreamer          | []     []          [] []    []    []             |
     gtick              | []  []                      []    []             |
     gtkam              | []                    []    [] [] [] []          |
     gtkorphan          | []                 []       []    []             |
     gtkspell           | []  [] []    []    [] [] [] [] [] [] []          |
     gutenprint         | []     []             []          []             |
     hello              | []  [] []          [] []    []                   |
     help2man           | []                 []             [] []          |
     hylafax            |                             []                   |
     idutils            | []                          []                   |
     indent             | []  [] []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     iso_15924          | ()     []                   [] [] []             |
     iso_3166           | ()  [] [] [] [] [] [] []    [] [] [] []    [] [] |
     iso_3166_2         | ()                          []    []             |
     iso_4217           | ()                 [] []    [] [] [] []          |
     iso_639            | ()  [] [] []       [] []    [] [] [] []       [] |
     iso_639_3          | ()     []                         []          [] |
     iwhd               |                                      []          |
     jwhois             | []                    []    []    []             |
     kbd                | []                          []    []             |
     keytouch           | []  []             [] []    []    []             |
     keytouch-editor    |     []             [] []    []    []             |
     keytouch-keyboa... |     []             [] []    []    []             |
     klavaro            | []     []             []          []       []    |
     latrine            |                    []       []    [] []          |
     ld                 | []  []                      []    [] []          |
     leafpad            | []  [] []    []    [] []    []    [] ()          |
     libc               | []     []          []       []    [] []          |
     libexif            | []                                []             |
     libextractor       |                                                  |
     libgnutls          | []                                []             |
     libgpewidget       |     []             [] []    []       []          |
     libgpg-error       | []                                [] []          |
     libgphoto2         | []                                   []          |
     libgphoto2_port    | []                                [] []          |
     libgsasl           | []  []                      []    []             |
     libiconv           | []  [] []          []       []    [] []          |
     libidn             | []                 []       []    []             |
     lifelines          | ()                                               |
     liferea            | []           []       []          [] []          |
     lilypond           | []                                []             |
     linkdr             |              []    [] []          []             |
     lordsawar          |                                                  |
     lprng              |                             []                   |
     lynx               | []                    []    []    [] []          |
     m4                 | []  [] []          []       []       []          |
     mailfromd          |                                                  |
     mailutils          | []                                               |
     make               | []  [] []    []    []       []    [] []          |
     man-db             | []                          []       []          |
     man-db-manpages    | []                          []       []          |
     minicom            | []                    []    []       []          |
     mkisofs            | []                          []    []             |
     myserver           | []                                []             |
     nano               | []  [] []             []          [] []          |
     opcodes            | []  []                      []    []             |
     parted             | []     []                   []    [] []          |
     pies               |                                                  |
     popt               | []  [] []          [] []    [] [] [] []          |
     psmisc             | []                 [] []    []    []             |
     pspp               | []                                               |
     pwdutils           | []                          []                   |
     pyspread           |                                                  |
     radius             | []                          []                   |
     recode             | []  [] []    []    [] []    []    []             |
     recutils           | []                                               |
     rosegarden         | ()                          ()    () ()          |
     rpm                |                             []                   |
     rush               |                                                  |
     sarg               | []                                               |
     sed                | []  [] []          [] []    []    [] []          |
     sharutils          | []  [] []                   []    [] []          |
     shishi             | []                                               |
     skencil            | []                                               |
     solfege            | []     []                         []             |
     solfege-manual     | []                                               |
     sp                 | []                                   ()          |
     sudo               |        []          []             [] []          |
     sudoers            |                    []             [] []          |
     sysstat            | []                 []       []    [] []          |
     tar                | []  []             [] []    []    [] []          |
     texinfo            | []                 []       []    [] []          |
     tin                | []                                               |
     tracgoogleappsa... |              []    []                            |
     trader             | []                 []                            |
     unicode-han-tra... |                                                  |
     unicode-transla... | []  []                                           |
     util-linux         | []                                               |
     vice               | ()                    ()          ()             |
     vmm                |                                                  |
     vorbis-tools       | []                 []       []                   |
     wastesedge         | ()                                ()             |
     wdiff              | []                                []             |
     wget               | []  []             [] []    []    [] []          |
     wyslij-po          | []                 []       []                   |
     xboard             |                                                  |
     xchat              | []        []    []    []    []    [] []       [] |
     xdg-user-dirs      | []  [] [] [] [] [] [] []    [] [] [] []    [] [] |
     xkeyboard-config   | []     []             []    []    [] []          |
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
                          fr  ga gl gu he hi hr hu hy id is it ja ka kk kn
                          123 48 41  4 10  3 65 43  1 95 10 97 66  0  3  5

                          ko ku ky lg lt lv mk ml mn mr ms mt nb ne nl
                        +-----------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |                               []          []  |
     aegis              |                                           []  |
     anubis             |                               []    []    []  |
     aspell             |                         []                []  |
     bash               |                                           []  |
     bfd                |                                               |
     bibshelf           |                []             []          []  |
     binutils           |                                               |
     bison              |                                           []  |
     bison-runtime      |       []    [] []             []    []    []  |
     bombono-dvd        |                                               |
     buzztard           |                                           []  |
     ccide              |                                           []  |
     cflow              |                                           []  |
     clisp              |                                           []  |
     coreutils          |          []                               []  |
     cpio               |                                           []  |
     cppi               |                                               |
     cpplib             |                                           []  |
     cryptsetup         |                                           []  |
     denemo             |                                               |
     dfarc              |                   []                      []  |
     dialog             |    []       [] []             []    []    []  |
     dico               |                                               |
     diffutils          |                                           []  |
     dink               |                                           []  |
     doodle             |                                           []  |
     e2fsprogs          |                                           []  |
     enscript           |                                           []  |
     exif               |                []                         []  |
     fetchmail          |                                           []  |
     findutils          |                                           []  |
     flex               |                                           []  |
     freedink           |                                     []    []  |
     gas                |                                               |
     gawk               |                                           []  |
     gcal               |                                               |
     gcc                |                                               |
     gdbm               |                                               |
     gettext-examples   |       []       []             [] [] []    []  |
     gettext-runtime    | []                                        []  |
     gettext-tools      | []                                            |
     gip                |                []             []          []  |
     gjay               |                                               |
     gliv               |                                           []  |
     glunarclock        |                []                         []  |
     gnome-manual-du... |                                               |
     gnubiff            |                                           []  |
     gnubik             |                                           []  |
     gnucash            | ()          () []                   () () []  |
     gnuedu             |                                           []  |
     gnulib             |                                           []  |
     gnunet             |                                               |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                               |
     gold               |                                               |
     gphoto2            |                                           []  |
     gprof              |                               []          []  |
     gpsdrive           |                                           []  |
     gramadoir          |                                           []  |
     grep               |                                           []  |
     grub               |                                           []  |
     gsasl              |                                           []  |
     gss                |                                               |
     gst-plugins-bad    |             [] []                [] []    []  |
     gst-plugins-base   |                []                   []    []  |
     gst-plugins-good   |             [] []                [] []    []  |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |                []             [] [] []    []  |
     gstreamer          |             []                            []  |
     gtick              |                                           []  |
     gtkam              |                                     []    []  |
     gtkorphan          |                []                         []  |
     gtkspell           |       []    [] []       []    []    []    []  |
     gutenprint         |                                           []  |
     hello              | []             []             []          []  |
     help2man           |                                               |
     hylafax            |                                           []  |
     idutils            |                                           []  |
     indent             |                                           []  |
     iso_15924          |             [] []                         []  |
     iso_3166           | [] []       () [] [] []    []       []    []  |
     iso_3166_2         |                                           []  |
     iso_4217           |             [] []                   []    []  |
     iso_639            | []             []    []    []             []  |
     iso_639_3          |                            []                 |
     iwhd               |                                               |
     jwhois             |                []                         []  |
     kbd                |                                           []  |
     keytouch           |                []                         []  |
     keytouch-editor    |                []                         []  |
     keytouch-keyboa... |                []                         []  |
     klavaro            |                                     []    []  |
     latrine            |                []                         []  |
     ld                 |                                               |
     leafpad            | []    []    [] []                         []  |
     libc               | []                                        []  |
     libexif            |                                           []  |
     libextractor       |                                               |
     libgnutls          |                               []          []  |
     libgpewidget       |                []             []    []    []  |
     libgpg-error       |                                           []  |
     libgphoto2         |                                           []  |
     libgphoto2_port    |                                           []  |
     libgsasl           |                                           []  |
     libiconv           |                                           []  |
     libidn             |                                           []  |
     lifelines          |                                           []  |
     liferea            |             [] []                         []  |
     lilypond           |                                               |
     linkdr             |                                           []  |
     lordsawar          |                                               |
     lprng              |                                               |
     lynx               |                                           []  |
     m4                 |                                           []  |
     mailfromd          |                                               |
     mailutils          |                                               |
     make               | []                                        []  |
     man-db             |                                           []  |
     man-db-manpages    |                                           []  |
     minicom            |                                     []        |
     mkisofs            |                                           []  |
     myserver           |                                               |
     nano               |                               []    []    []  |
     opcodes            |                                           []  |
     parted             |                                           []  |
     pies               |                                               |
     popt               | []             []                   []    []  |
     psmisc             |                                           []  |
     pspp               |             []                            []  |
     pwdutils           |                                           []  |
     pyspread           |                                               |
     radius             |                                           []  |
     recode             |                                     []    []  |
     recutils           |                                           []  |
     rosegarden         |                                               |
     rpm                |                                           []  |
     rush               |                                           []  |
     sarg               |                                               |
     sed                |                                     []    []  |
     sharutils          |                                           []  |
     shishi             |                                               |
     skencil            |                                               |
     solfege            |                                     []    []  |
     solfege-manual     |                                           []  |
     sp                 |                                               |
     sudo               |                                               |
     sudoers            |                                               |
     sysstat            |                []                   []    []  |
     tar                |       []                                  []  |
     texinfo            |                                           []  |
     tin                |                                               |
     tracgoogleappsa... |                []                   []    []  |
     trader             |                                     []        |
     unicode-han-tra... |                                               |
     unicode-transla... |                                               |
     util-linux         |                                           []  |
     vice               |                                           []  |
     vmm                |                                           []  |
     vorbis-tools       |                                           []  |
     wastesedge         |                                           []  |
     wdiff              |                                           []  |
     wget               |             []                            []  |
     wyslij-po          |                                           []  |
     xboard             |                                               |
     xchat              | []             [] []                      []  |
     xdg-user-dirs      | [] []       [] [] [] []    []       []    []  |
     xkeyboard-config   | []          []                            []  |
                        +-----------------------------------------------+
                          ko ku ky lg lt lv mk ml mn mr ms mt nb ne nl
                          12  3  5  1 14 32  4  3  2  4 14  4 25  0 124

                          nn or os pa pl  ps pt pt_BR ro ru rw sk sl sq sr sv
                        +-----------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |             []     []  []   [] []       []    [] [] |
     aegis              |                        []      []                   |
     anubis             |             []                 []                [] |
     aspell             |             []              [] []    [] []    []    |
     bash               |             []                       [] []       [] |
     bfd                |                                []                   |
     bibshelf           | []          []                 []       []    [] [] |
     binutils           |                                []    []             |
     bison              |             []                                [] [] |
     bison-runtime      |             []     []  []   [] []       [] [] [] [] |
     bombono-dvd        | []                             ()                   |
     buzztard           | []                                                  |
     ccide              |             []                 []                   |
     cflow              |             []                                [] [] |
     clisp              |                                []                   |
     coreutils          |             []         []      []       []       [] |
     cpio               |             []                 []             [] [] |
     cppi               |             []                                [] [] |
     cpplib             |                                []             [] [] |
     cryptsetup         |             []                                      |
     denemo             |                                                     |
     dfarc              |             []                                []    |
     dialog             |             []         []      []    [] []    [] [] |
     dico               |             []                                      |
     diffutils          |             []                                   [] |
     dink               |                                                     |
     doodle             |                                            [] [] [] |
     e2fsprogs          |             []                                   [] |
     enscript           |             []         []   [] []       []       [] |
     exif               |             []              []       []       [] [] |
     fetchmail          |             []                 []          []    [] |
     findutils          |             []     []          []       []    [] [] |
     flex               |             []         []   [] []                [] |
     freedink           |             []                          []    []    |
     gas                |                                                     |
     gawk               |             []         []   []                   [] |
     gcal               |                                                  [] |
     gcc                |                                                  [] |
     gdbm               |             []                                []    |
     gettext-examples   |             []     []       [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gettext-runtime    | []          []     []       [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gettext-tools      |             []              [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gip                |             []                 []    []       [] [] |
     gjay               |                                               []    |
     gliv               |             []         []   [] []    []          [] |
     glunarclock        |             []         []   []       [] []    [] [] |
     gnome-manual-du... |             []         []      []             [] [] |
     gnubiff            |                             ()                   [] |
     gnubik             |             []                          []    []    |
     gnucash            |             ()         ()      ()                   |
     gnuedu             |                                []                   |
     gnulib             |             []                 []       []       [] |
     gnunet             |                                                     |
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                     |
     gold               |                                                     |
     gphoto2            |             []         []   [] []    []       [] [] |
     gprof              |                        []   [] []             [] [] |
     gpsdrive           |                                []                [] |
     gramadoir          |                                      []       [] [] |
     grep               |             []         []      []    [] []    [] [] |
     grub               |             []         []      []                   |
     gsasl              |             []                       []       [] [] |
     gss                |             []              []       []       [] [] |
     gst-plugins-bad    |             []         []   [] []    [] [] [] [] [] |
     gst-plugins-base   |             []         []   [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gst-plugins-good   |             []         []   [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gst-plugins-ugly   |             []         []   [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gstreamer          |             []         []   [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     gtick              |             []                 []    []       []    |
     gtkam              |          [] []         []      []    []          [] |
     gtkorphan          |             []                 []             [] [] |
     gtkspell           |             []     []  []   [] []    [] [] [] [] [] |
     gutenprint         |                                         []       [] |
     hello              |             []                       [] []    [] [] |
     help2man           |             []         []      []             [] [] |
     hylafax            |                                                     |
     idutils            |             []                 []             []    |
     indent             |             []         []   [] []    []       [] [] |
     iso_15924          |             []              [] []       []          |
     iso_3166           | [] []    [] []     ()  []   [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] |
     iso_3166_2         |             []                                      |
     iso_4217           | []          []     []       [] [] []    []    [] [] |
     iso_639            |    []    [] []              [] [] [] [] []    [] [] |
     iso_639_3          |          []                                         |
     iwhd               |                                               []    |
     jwhois             |             []         []   []                [] [] |
     kbd                |             []              [] []                [] |
     keytouch           |             []                       [] []    [] [] |
     keytouch-editor    |             []                       [] []    [] [] |
     keytouch-keyboa... |             []                       [] []    [] [] |
     klavaro            |             []         []      []                   |
     latrine            |             []                 []             []    |
     ld                 |                                                  [] |
     leafpad            | []    []    []     []  []      []    [] []    [] [] |
     libc               |             []                 []    []          [] |
     libexif            |             []         ()            []             |
     libextractor       |                                                     |
     libgnutls          |             []                                   [] |
     libgpewidget       |             []                          []    [] [] |
     libgpg-error       |             []              []                   [] |
     libgphoto2         |             []                                      |
     libgphoto2_port    |             []         []      []    []       [] [] |
     libgsasl           |             []              []       []       [] [] |
     libiconv           |             []                       [] []    [] [] |
     libidn             |             []                                [] () |
     lifelines          |             []                                   [] |
     liferea            |             []     []  []   [] ()    ()    []    [] |
     lilypond           |                                                     |
     linkdr             |                    []          []             [] [] |
     lordsawar          |                                                     |
     lprng              |             []                                      |
     lynx               |                        []      []                [] |
     m4                 |             []         []   [] []             [] [] |
     mailfromd          |             []                                      |
     mailutils          |             []                                      |
     make               |             []         []      []                [] |
     man-db             |             []                 []                   |
     man-db-manpages    |             []                 []                   |
     minicom            |             []         []   [] []                [] |
     mkisofs            |             []                 []             []    |
     myserver           |                                         []    []    |
     nano               |             []         []      []       []       [] |
     opcodes            |                             []                   [] |
     parted             |             []                 []    [] []    [] [] |
     pies               |             []                                      |
     popt               |             []     []          []       []    [] [] |
     psmisc             |             []         []      []             [] [] |
     pspp               |                                                     |
     pwdutils           |             []                                   [] |
     pyspread           |                                                     |
     radius             |             []                 []                   |
     recode             |             []     []  []   [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     recutils           |                                               [] [] |
     rosegarden         |             ()                 ()                () |
     rpm                |             []                                   [] |
     rush               |             []                                []    |
     sarg               |                                                     |
     sed                |             []     []  []   [] []    [] []    [] [] |
     sharutils          |             []                 []             [] [] |
     shishi             |             []                                []    |
     skencil            |                    []  []                        [] |
     solfege            |             []         []      []                   |
     solfege-manual     |             []         []                           |
     sp                 |                                                     |
     sudo               |             []                 []       []    [] [] |
     sudoers            |             []                          []       [] |
     sysstat            |             []         []      []    []       []    |
     tar                |             []                 []       []       [] |
     texinfo            |             []                          []       [] |
     tin                |                                []                   |
     tracgoogleappsa... |             []                 []             []    |
     trader             |                                []                   |
     unicode-han-tra... |                                                     |
     unicode-transla... |                                                     |
     util-linux         |             []                                      |
     vice               |                                                  () |
     vmm                |                                                     |
     vorbis-tools       |             []                          []       [] |
     wastesedge         |                                                     |
     wdiff              |             []                          []    [] [] |
     wget               |             []     []  []      []    [] []    [] [] |
     wyslij-po          | []          []                                []    |
     xboard             |                                                     |
     xchat              |          [] []     []          []    [] [] [] [] [] |
     xdg-user-dirs      | [] []    [] []  [] []  []   [] []    [] [] [] [] [] |
     xkeyboard-config   |             []                 []       []       [] |
                        +-----------------------------------------------------+
                          nn or os pa pl  ps pt pt_BR ro ru rw sk sl sq sr sv
                           9  3  1  6 116  1 17  45   37 81  3 44 51  9 78 97

                          sw ta te tg th tr uk ur vi  wa zh_CN zh_HK zh_TW
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
     a2ps               |             [] [] []    []                       | 30
     aegis              |                         []                       |  9
     anubis             |                [] []    []                       | 16
     aspell             |                   []    []  []                   | 25
     bash               |                   []    []      []               | 18
     bfd                |                   []    []                       |  9
     bibshelf           |                         []      []               | 23
     binutils           |                   []    []                       | 10
     bison              |                   []    []                       | 14
     bison-runtime      |             []    []    []      []          []   | 35
     bombono-dvd        |                   []    []      []               | 10
     buzztard           |                         []                       |  8
     ccide              |                   []    []                       | 11
     cflow              |                   []    []      []               | 15
     clisp              |                                                  | 10
     coreutils          |                   []    []      []               | 21
     cpio               |                [] []    []      []          []   | 19
     cppi               |                   []    []                       | 12
     cpplib             |                [] []    []      []          []   | 17
     cryptsetup         |                   []    []                       |  9
     denemo             |                                                  |  1
     dfarc              |                         []                       | 14
     dialog             | []          []          []  []  []          []   | 37
     dico               |                   []                             |  4
     diffutils          |                   []    []                       | 11
     dink               |                                                  |  6
     doodle             |                         []                       | 11
     e2fsprogs          |                         []                       |  9
     enscript           |                [] []    []                       | 19
     exif               |                   []    []      []               | 22
     fetchmail          |                []       []      []               | 18
     findutils          |                [] []    []      []               | 25
     flex               |                []       []                  []   | 17
     freedink           |                         []                       | 19
     gas                |                                                  |  4
     gawk               |                []       []      []               | 19
     gcal               |                []                                |  6
     gcc                |                                 []               |  5
     gdbm               |                   []    []                       |  8
     gettext-examples   |                [] []    []      []    []    []   | 39
     gettext-runtime    |                [] []    []      []    []    []   | 32
     gettext-tools      |                [] []    []      []          []   | 24
     gip                |                         []      []          []   | 25
     gjay               |                         []                       |  6
     gliv               |                []       []                       | 14
     glunarclock        |                         []  []  []          []   | 26
     gnome-manual-du... |                [] []                             | 14
     gnubiff            |                         []                       |  5
     gnubik             |                   []                             | 10
     gnucash            |                () []    ()      []          ()   | 11
     gnuedu             |                         []                  []   |  8
     gnulib             |                   []    []      []               | 20
     gnunet             |                                                  |  0
     gnunet-gtk         |                                                  |  0
     gold               |                   []    []                       |  6
     gphoto2            |                   []    []      []          []   | 19
     gprof              |                [] []    []                       | 20
     gpsdrive           |                         []      []               | 11
     gramadoir          |                         []      []               | 13
     grep               |             []    []    []      []          []   | 28
     grub               |                   []    []                       | 11
     gsasl              |                   []    []      []          []   | 17
     gss                |                         []      []               | 14
     gst-plugins-bad    |                [] []    []      []               | 35
     gst-plugins-base   |                [] []    []                       | 30
     gst-plugins-good   |                [] []    []      []               | 33
     gst-plugins-ugly   |                [] []    []      []               | 34
     gstreamer          |                   []    []      []               | 29
     gtick              |                   []    []      []               | 16
     gtkam              |                   []    []      []               | 23
     gtkorphan          |                         []      []               | 17
     gtkspell           |             [] [] []    []  []  []    []    []   | 47
     gutenprint         |                   []                             | 12
     hello              |             [] []       []      []          []   | 29
     help2man           |                   []    []                       | 15
     hylafax            |                         []                       |  5
     idutils            |                   []    []      []               | 13
     indent             |                [] []    []      []          []   | 31
     iso_15924          |             ()    []    ()      []          []   | 20
     iso_3166           |       []    () [] []    ()  []  []    []    []   | 57
     iso_3166_2         |             ()    []    ()      []               |  9
     iso_4217           |             () [] []    ()      []    []    []   | 31
     iso_639            |    [] []    ()    []    ()  []  []    []    []   | 45
     iso_639_3          |    []             []    ()                       | 10
     iwhd               |                   []    []                       |  7
     jwhois             |                []       []      []          []   | 19
     kbd                |                [] []    []      []               | 18
     keytouch           |                         []      []               | 21
     keytouch-editor    |                         []      []               | 19
     keytouch-keyboa... |                         []      []               | 20
     klavaro            |                   [] [] []      []               | 21
     latrine            |                []       []      []               | 16
     ld                 |                [] []    []                  []   | 14
     leafpad            |                [] []    []      []          []   | 39
     libc               |                []       []      []          []   | 23
     libexif            |                         []      ()               |  8
     libextractor       |                   []    []                       |  2
     libgnutls          |                   []    []      []               | 12
     libgpewidget       |                         []      []               | 18
     libgpg-error       |                   []    []      []               | 12
     libgphoto2         |                   []    []                       |  7
     libgphoto2_port    |                   []    []                  []   | 16
     libgsasl           |                   []    []      []               | 16
     libiconv           |                   []    []  []  []               | 24
     libidn             |                   []    []      []               | 15
     lifelines          |                                                  |  4
     liferea            |                [] []    []      []               | 28
     lilypond           |                         []                       |  8
     linkdr             |                []       []      []          []   | 18
     lordsawar          |                                                  |  3
     lprng              |                         []                       |  3
     lynx               |                [] []    []                       | 19
     m4                 |                         []      []          []   | 21
     mailfromd          |                   []    []                       |  3
     mailutils          |                         []                       |  5
     make               |                [] []    []      []               | 23
     man-db             |                         []      []               | 12
     man-db-manpages    |                                                  |  7
     minicom            |                         []                       | 16
     mkisofs            |                   []    []      []               | 12
     myserver           |                         []                       |  8
     nano               |                         []      []          []   | 26
     opcodes            |                [] []    []                       | 14
     parted             |                [] []    []                  []   | 19
     pies               |                   []    []                       |  3
     popt               |             [] []       []      []          []   | 30
     psmisc             |                   []    []                       | 19
     pspp               |                                                  |  5
     pwdutils           |                         []                       |  7
     pyspread           |                                                  |  0
     radius             |                   []    []                       |  9
     recode             |                []       []      []               | 31
     recutils           |                   []                             |  7
     rosegarden         |                                                  |  0
     rpm                |                         []                  []   |  9
     rush               |                   []    []                       |  6
     sarg               |                                                  |  2
     sed                |                [] []    []      []          []   | 34
     sharutils          |                [] []    []      []               | 23
     shishi             |                         []                       |  5
     skencil            |                         []                  []   |  8
     solfege            |                []       []      []               | 19
     solfege-manual     |                []                                |  9
     sp                 |                []                                |  3
     sudo               |                   []    []      []               | 17
     sudoers            |                   []    []      []               | 12
     sysstat            |                   []    []      []               | 22
     tar                |                [] []    []      []          []   | 26
     texinfo            |                [] []    []      []               | 15
     tin                |                                             []   |  5
     tracgoogleappsa... |                   []            []               | 14
     trader             |                                                  |  7
     unicode-han-tra... |                                                  |  0
     unicode-transla... |                                                  |  2
     util-linux         |                   []    []                       |  7
     vice               |                ()                                |  1
     vmm                |                                                  |  2
     vorbis-tools       |                         []                       | 12
     wastesedge         |                                                  |  2
     wdiff              |                   []    []                       | 15
     wget               |                [] []    []      []          []   | 29
     wyslij-po          |                   []    []                       | 10
     xboard             |                   []                             |  3
     xchat              |             []    []    []      []          []   | 38
     xdg-user-dirs      |    [] []    [] [] []    []      []    []    []   | 66
     xkeyboard-config   |                   []            []               | 22
                        +--------------------------------------------------+
       87 teams           sw ta te tg th tr uk ur vi  wa zh_CN zh_HK zh_TW
      166 domains          1  3  3  0  9 48 94  1 133  7  80     7    39    2642

   Some counters in the preceding matrix are higher than the number of
visible blocks let us expect.  This is because a few extra PO files are
used for implementing regional variants of languages, or language
dialects.

   For a PO file in the matrix above to be effective, the package to
which it applies should also have been internationalized and
distributed as such by its maintainer.  There might be an observable
lag between the mere existence a PO file and its wide availability in a
distribution.

   If Dec 2012 seems to be old, you may fetch a more recent copy of
this ‘ABOUT-NLS’ file on most GNU archive sites.  The most up-to-date
matrix with full percentage details can be found at
‘http://translationproject.org/extra/matrix.html’.

1.5 Using ‘gettext’ in new packages
===================================

If you are writing a freely available program and want to
internationalize it you are welcome to use GNU ‘gettext’ in your
package.  Of course you have to respect the GNU Lesser General Public
License which covers the use of the GNU ‘gettext’ library.  This means
in particular that even non-free programs can use ‘libintl’ as a shared
library, whereas only free software can use ‘libintl’ as a static
library or use modified versions of ‘libintl’.

   Once the sources are changed appropriately and the setup can handle
the use of ‘gettext’ the only thing missing are the translations.  The
Free Translation Project is also available for packages which are not
developed inside the GNU project.  Therefore the information given above
applies also for every other Free Software Project.  Contact
‘coordinator@translationproject.org’ to make the ‘.pot’ files available
to the translation teams.

